## Background
People who use substances (PWUS) and people living in Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside (DTES) are often stigmatized and labelled with negative stereotypes, including within the healthcare system. Stigma and discrimination can prevent people from seeking care, leading to poor quality of care, exacerbation of existing health condition, and further mistrust of the healthcare system. Stigma and discrimination also may uphold rules and policies that exclude and marginalize people who need and deserve good care. The goal of the project is to help decrease stigma in healthcare, enhance providers’ understanding of the community and build healthcare providers’ skills and confidence working with clients from the DTES. The project provides a virtual tour of some of the community-based services in the DTES, and shares video interviews with community members who have been impacted by stigma. The objective of the course is to allow healthcare providers to better understand the lives of their patients, to provide culturally safe practice, and to increase access to care and quality of care for people who use substances. The goal is for this education is reducing social and structural stigma in health care, improve health care access, and ultimately reduce the toll of the overdose public health emergency. 

<br>

## The Community
The community of the DTES is multi-cultural, with many residents connected to culturally diverse communities and histories, including the Chinatown district, as well the histories of Japanese residents in Oppenheimer, prior to World War II and the devastation of the internment camps. While the community is located on Coast Salish territories, the DTES has a higher proportion of Indigenous people than other communities within Vancouver, and includes Indigenous people from across North America. While recognized for poverty, homelessness, substance use, the DTES also needs to be acknowledged for their multi-cultural, inter-connected communities that care for each other.
